>> Kyle Simpson: All right, so that helps
address one of the shortcomings of async
functions which is that if we nest
functions inside of them, we create
barriers and we can't use it in a way in
a deeply nested function or whatever.
That fixes one of the problems but
to be honest with you,
there are some other problems that
I think need to be considered
when we talk about async functions.
And these issues taken
together as a whole,
are one of the reasons I personally still
often use the generators with a runner,
instead of using the normal
built in basic async function.
So I want to talk to
you about a few issues,
design issues if you will,
for a sync functions.
Number one.
The async function,
the await keyword only knows what
to do with actual real promises.
Which generally isn't that big of a deal
but there are other representations
of future values that would be more
convenient sometimes to be able to await.
For example,
it might be useful to be able to await.
A custom promise that doesn't have
the same then function on it,
it might be useful to await
a what's called a Func,
which is a function
representation of a future value.
The await keyword doesn't
offer us any options for
that it's not extensible in any way.
It only knows what to do
with thenables and promises.
So it's a little bit more limited.
That's not a huge deal, but
it is a little annoying.
When you work with a generator, and
you have your own gen runner, you have the
complete freedom to be able to yield and
pause on any representation of
future value that you need to.
>> Kyle Simpson: Number two,
this is an even more nuanced issue, but
I think a big, big problem which is
the way that the specification implemented
promises is that it implemented
what we call the micro-task queue.
So to have a synchrony meaning I don't
want this thing to block right now but
I want it to happen on the next
tick as many people say.
But I don't want it to actually be
like subject to waiting on other event
handlers, there's essentially
internal in the event loop,
this thing called the micro task queue.
And promises when ever they
need to resolve an asynchronous
operation they actually don't
queue an event loop item,
they queue something in
the micro task queue.
And that means that they essentially
are cutting to the front of the line.
So anything that's built
up waiting like any ajax or
other events handlers that are all
waiting on the event loop.
They don't get a chance to fire as long
as something keeps getting added to
the micro task queue.
The effect of this is that certain
programming patterns can either
intentional or accidentally end
up creating an infinite loop,
where a promise keeps adding
a new micro-task queue.
And it keeps consuming that event loop and
it never lets anything else
in the program resolve.
And there's a term for
that in broader concurrency programming.
That's called starvation.
It's a big enough problem like
whole PhD theses have been done
on people studying
the problems of starvation and
algorithms to avoid starvation
within computer programs.
Starvation creates a form
of denial of service,
it creates a form of deadlock These
are big big problems in computer science.
And I find it particularly troubling that
they naively implemented the scheduling
algorithm for promises, that is
inherently susceptible to starvation.
I didn't go looking for
this problem to try to expose it.
I ran across this accidentally because I
was implementing a programming concurrency
pattern called CSP which stands for
communicating sequential processes.
I ran across this problem where I had
implemented CSP with a generator and
then one of the things you do
in CSP that's a common pattern.
It ended up producing that
infinite microtask loop,
and it starved out
the rest of the program.
And that's what led me down the rabbit
hole of, how did this even happen?
And then I found out, this scheduling
algorithm is not preventing starvation.
And so I went to the specification list I
brought this to the attention of several
people on TC39.
And I said, this is kind of a problem,
that we have this naive scheduling
algorithm that is
susceptible to starvation.
Here's the code that I did,
very innocently,
not realizing that it
would expose this problem.
And we went back and forth, and then they
basically just said this is probably not
a big deal because you're the only
person that's ever complained about it.
And then they just blew it off,
so what we have is promises and
specifically the way they were
exposed inside of cancel, I mean,
inside of asynch function is essentially
this ticking time bomb of people
accidentally gonna create starvation and
not even know why it's happening.
And it's because we didn't build
the algorithm to be robust to that.
There are good solid strategies
that have been around for decades.
And we just didn't employ any of those in
the definition of the microtask queue.
So that is one of the things that I'm
frustrated about with the design of
promises and async functions.
I think they should have been more
defensive about that problem.
But this third problem is really
the kind of dagger to the heart.
It's really the one, you could ignore
these other two as being rather niche and
nuance, but this third one I
think is a really big deal.
And by the way,
it's not that we waited until after
to know that this was a problem.
Two and a half years before async
functions landed finally in the spec,
I was raising noise about this on the spec
list saying This is a really bad problem,
we need to fix this design
before you ship async functions.
And there were several really
really long GitHub threads like
hundreds of messages long where we
were all fighting about this and
I kept saying listen we need to fix this,
don't ship them without this.
And then they just ended up shipping
it without fixing this problem.
So it's almost self-inflicted, because
we knew that this could be a problem.
The problem I'm speaking about is that
async functions are essentially black
boxes that once they start, it is
impossible to externally cancel them.
You can't tell an a sync function,
once you invoke it,
hey I know you're in the middle of doing
a bunch of downloading of stuff, or
whatever, but I want you to stop.
There's no way to tell it do that,
which means it's gonna continue to spin
on the micro task queue, and
consume resources, until forever.
Until it decides that it wants to stop,
if ever.
So I'm particularly
troubled by cancellation,
matter of fact I have a whole talk on
the topic of asynchronous cancellation,
it's called cancel all my appointments.
And if you check out online, you'll see
links on my social feeds to this talk.
Because I actually believe that this
is such a big deal that all forms of
asynchrony that we ever do should
have some mechanism for cancellation.
And here, we have potentially
one of the most important
additions to JavaScript
ever added to the language.
And we just completely
ignored the question of,
how are these going to be cancellable?
And so it is for those three reasons that,
in many cases the async function,
while it's very attractive syntactically
is sort of fatally flawed.
And it doesn't mean I never use them, but
I still use generators whenever I need to
get around one or more of these problems.
And specifically with respect
to cancellation I had developed
a library to try to show what I
thought could be a workable way for
asynchronous functions to be cancellable.
It's based on the idea
of cancellation tokens.
That is not an invention that I made up.
That is a standardized thing for
many other languages, like C Sharp.
And in fact we already have in
the web platform cancellation tokens.
If you've ever used something like fetch.
Fetch has a way for
you to cancel an ajax request and
the way you do it is to pass
in a cancellation token.
And then when you call abort on
the cancellation token it stops
the ajax request.
So it's standardized in C Sharp and
we already have it in the web platform and
I was like this is a really good way for
us to make async functions cancellable.
Unfortunately as things currently
stand it's just a user [INAUDIBLE] it
didn't end up getting picked up.
But this is what it looks like.
It's called CAF.
Stands for cancellable asynch functions,
you make a token like
I'm doing on line one.
You make a generator that is
wrapped with the CAF utility and
you notice that you pass in the signal.
On line 10, when you call down
here token.abort on line 15, oops.
On line 15, when you call token,abort,
>> Kyle Simpson: It will actually
send that signal into the asynchronous
funciton and tell it, stop running.
Whatever you're in the middle
of stop right away.
So now we have the way to send
a standardized way of sending in
a cancellation signal
from the external side.
One of the most common ways that
you're going to want to, or
one of the most common decisions
that you're going to want to
make about canceling your
asynchronous behavior.
Is if you have a time-based
cancellation like I wanna time out.
I wanna let this operation run for
a maximum of 5 seconds.
So you see I'm doing it kinda
manually here with the set timeout.
There's actually a mechanism
built right into the API.
Line one, you see CAF.timeout.
That makes a cancellation token that will
automatically cancel itself after five
seconds.
So then you just passed that in and
you don't have to mess around
with your own set timeout calls.
So again, I'm not trying to plug this
library like I want you to go use it but
I deeply believe that every asynchronous
operation that you write in your programs,
needs to have a mechanism for
cancellation if you're gonna like
make a request of the file system.
But what happened to the file system is
network mounted and the network's down and
now you're seemingly benign request to do
a directory listing is hanging forever.
Even stuff like that needs cancellation.
Every asynchronous operation that we could
ever do in any part of the app front or
back end,
you should have some mechanism for
cancelling it at a minimum
based on a time mount.
And I was hoping that
this kind of research and
experimentation into something like CAF
would lead to a larger movement of,
let's address cancellation in the design
of our asynchronous operations.
So maybe someday that
ends up happening but
unfortunately ships already
sailed with async functions.
They don't by default,
have a way to do cancellation.